Yellowstone National Park is in the United States of America. It became the first National Park in 1872. There are geysers and hot springs at Yellowstone. There are also many animals like elk, bison, sheep, grizzly bears, black bears, moose, coyotes, and more at Yellowstone. More than 3 million people visit Yellowstone each year. During the winter, visitors can ski, go snowmobiling or join tours there. Visitors can see steam and water from the geysers. During other seasons, visitors can go horse-riding, boating, fishing or take nature trails and tours. Most visitors want to see Old Faithful, a very predictable geyser at Yellowstone. Visitors can check a schedule to see the precise time that Old Faithful is going to erupt. There are many other geysers and bubbling springs in the area. Great Fountain Geyser erupts every 11 hours up to a height of 67 metres. Excelsior Geyser produces 4,000 gallons of boiling water each minute! Boiling water is 100 degrees Celsius, or 212 degrees Fahrenheit – that’s very hot! People also like to see the Grand Prismatic Spring. It is the largest hot spring in the park. It has many beautiful colors, which are caused by bacteria in the water. These are forms of life that have only one cell. Different bacteria live in different water temperatures. Visiting Yellowstone National Park can be a week–long vacation or more. It is beautiful, and there are activities for everyone.
“Mom, the lobster is delicious,” I said. “Save some for your brother.  He should be coming home soon.  It’s already   half past seven,” said my mother. “Yes, Sebastian, listen to your mother.  Lobsters are a rare treat for our family.  My boss has been very kind in giving us this treat,” added my father. What my father said was very true.  Life was hard for us.  My father worked as a foreman at a construction site.  He was paid only when he went to work.  He had to work under the hot sun or in heavy rain when the weather was bad. The doorbell rang.  I opened the door and my younger brother, Tim, charged in excitedly.  In his hands was a letter which he waved wildly.  He looked over the moon. “Mom, Dad, come see what I’ve to show you!” shouted Tim. We huddled around him and waited anxiously for what seemed to be good news. “I’ve got a scholarship to study in St Peter’s college.  The two-year tuition fees are fully paid for, plus they are giving me $3000 for books and stationery,” rattled Tim in one breath. We were overjoyed.  My mother was so happy, tears rolled down her cheeks.  Even my father, who looked stern most of the time, hugged Tim.  We were so proud of my brother.
Fossils of plants and ancient dinosaurs found in Antarctica show the continent once had a warm climate. Trees and plants grew there before the land drifted towards the frozen south pole. Now, Antarctica is the world’s windiest and coldest region, with ice 5 kilometres thick in parts. Some recorded wind speeds are over 300km/h, stronger than most cyclones. Thousands of large seals and penguins feed in the oceans around Antarctica and there is no land life on the continent. We can see only tiny insects and not one green tree. Only scientists and other workers live in this huge area of land. Each year, thousands of tourists visit the warmer parts in planes or ships. We hope they do not spoil this beautiful part of the world.
The chiming of the old grandfather clock echoed through the quiet house. Shirley began to stir from her sleep as the sixth and last chime of the clock rang in her ears. She quickly changed into her weekend clothes before going downstairs for something to eat. Shirley was hungry and it did not take her long to devour a plate of cereal and three pieces of toast, followed by a cup of warm milk. It was time to check the stable to see if old Sputnik had given birth to a new foal. Five years ago, Sputnik had been a champion racehorse, winning seven races from only a dozen starts before a leg injury forced her to retire from the racetrack. As Shirley made her way from the house to the sheds, she played a game of hopscotch with the puddles of rainwater that were in her path. Soon, she entered the stables where Sputnik was locked away. There, on a bed of hay, lay a lovely baby filly, just two hours old. Above her and standing proudly on guard was the grey Sputnik. Shirley jumped for joy before spinning around and charging back to the house to tell the others the good news. She wiped her feet carefully on the doormat before going down the hallway that led to the kitchen. Mother looked up from the kitchen table at Shirley’s happy face. “Well, tell us, Shirley, is it a filly or a colt?” she asked. “It’s a filly, the same colour as her mum,” replied an excited Shirley. Before long, Shirley was off to the study room where all her homework was done. Taking her diary from the bookshelf, she wrote ‘Born on the tenth day of the tenth month, a little filly with wobbly legs – I think I’ll call her ‘Legs Go’.
In many countries, cars on the roads cause problems for people. Thousands of pedestrians and drivers are killed in road accidents each year. Car exhausts also pour out dangerous fumes, containing lead into the air we breathe. Lead is used in petrol to prevent the wearing away of parts inside the engine. New cars use unleaded petrol. This is generally safe for people to use. However, some doctors believe a chemical called benzene can be dangerous to our health.  It is produced when unleaded petrol is used in cars that are not suitable for unleaded fuel. At certain times of the day, traffic jams are a problem on our main roads and governments have to think of ways to prevent them. One way is to ask drivers to leave their cars at home and use public transport such as buses and trains. The government can consider rewarding these people for helping to reduce the number of cars on the roads. It has been proven effective for most countries.
Dear Cousin Mary, How are you? My father and I were just discussing about earthquakes for my school project last week. I found out from the Internet that the largest earthquake happened in Chile in May 1960. Also, an earthquake that happened in 1556 in China killed the most number of people. Then last night, I heard about the earthquake in Lombok, Indonesia on the news. I read on the newspaper that many buildings gave way and thousands lost their homes. Luckily, there is no tsunami this time. I was also relieved to hear that the area you lived in only experienced some slight tremors. I got more interested and concerned, so I continued searching on the Internet. I realised some earthquakes are so small that machines cannot pick up on them, thus, we cannot feel them too. I also found out that Indonesia sits on the Pacific “Ring of Fire” where many earthquakes and volcanic eruptions occur. Some earthquakes happened deep in the sea and are not noticed by people on land. Most earthquakes happen 80 kilometres or less below the Earth’s surface. However, some are too far below the surface to be felt. With new and better technology, I expect scientists to invent a machine to predict earthquakes one day to help everyone. I hope you and your family in Indonesia will stay safe and well. Take care and write soon! Cheers, Cousin Eric
6 April 2018 Dear Diary, Last week, our school told us to prepare three presents for the ‘Friendship Day’ celebrations. These were to be given to our good friends. I was very happy and expected many gifts from my friends as I was very friendly and popular in my class. Today, when all the presents were distributed among my classmates, I received ten presents! I was overjoyed. Just as I was going to unwrap my presents, I noticed a classmate who was empty-handed. It was Julian, the boy who had joined our school two weeks ago. He sat silently in a corner of the classroom, looking out of the window miserably. I realised that no one had remembered to give him a gift. Fortunately, my mother had advised me to prepare an extra present. I walked to Julian and gave it to him. At first, he looked surprised, but soon a wide grin slowly spread across his face. He thanked me gratefully. Then he apologised as he had not prepared a gift for anyone. I told him that he could give me the gift of his time by playing with me during recess. By the end of the day, I had made a new friend. I’m glad that I had heeded my mother’s advice. 
Simba, the Lion King, fought with an elephant and was injured. His faithful follower, Fox, was always beside him. Simba had always given the leftovers of his hunt to Fox. Since Simba was unable to hunt, Fox had to remain hungry. Fox asked Simba to do something about it. Simba said, “Bring me a suitable animal which I can hunt even in my feeble state.” Fox set out for the nearby village where he met a donkey. “Hello friend, you are looking skinny,” said Fox. “Are you not well?” “Yes, friend,” replied the donkey, “my master gives me little food.” “Come with me! Our king is very kind and will feed you,” Fox said. Happily, the donkey followed Fox with dreams of green grass. When Simba saw the donkey coming, he could not control himself and tried to jump upon the donkey. Unluckily, he missed the donkey and it ran away. They had lost a prey. Simba asked Fox not to give up, but to try again. Fox went to a pond and found the donkey there. “Friend, why did you run away? The lion king was so happy to see you that he jumped up to welcome you.” The donkey was fooled again and accompanied Fox to see the lion in his cave. This time Simba was very careful and killed the foolish donkey immediately.
Sam and Tom were twins. Though they looked similar, they differed in personality. While Sam was generous and selfless, Tom was greedy and selfish! As the twins grew up, their father wanted to share his fortune equally between them. However, Tom disagreed and argued that whoever proved to be more intelligent and strong should get a bigger share of the wealth. Their father decided to hold a competition. He asked the twins to walk for as long as they could, and return home before sunset. The wealth would be divided in proportion to the distance covered. As a rule of the competition, they were not permitted to carry a watch to keep track of the time. On the day of competition, Sam walked slowly and steadily, while Tom sprinted as he wanted to win the race. Sam planned to walk as far as possible till noon and start for home thereafter, as it would take the same amount of time to walk back home. However, Tom did not attempt to return home even after noon. Tom walked twice as long as Sam so as to get more wealth. He hurried back only when the sun turned orange. Slowly, darkness engulfed his path and he had to drag his feet home. He had lost the race because of his greed.
Whales are unique creatures. Although they look like fish and live in the sea, unlike fish, they are warm-blooded mammals. They breathe through their lungs. They sense their surrounding environment through echolocation like dolphins and bats. Whales have flippers which they use to guide themselves while swimming. They propel themselves along with the help of their two-finned tails. They also use their flippers to slap hard against the water before lunging itself out of the water to warn others of approaching threat. Whales can dive to great depths, holding their breaths for a long period of time. They breathe in air through their blowholes instead of their mouths when they surface, and their breaths form a cloudy ‘spout’. Among the two kinds of whales, the toothed whales have teeth and they feed on all kinds of fish, plankton and crustaceans. Toothed whales include the sperm whale. Meanwhile the wholebone or better known as baleen whales have a huge sieve-like structure hanging from the roof of their mouths instead of teeth. This filters the tiny plants and animals from the water passing through the whale’s mouth. Wholebone whales include the biggest mammal – the blue whale. Many whales migrate by swimming long distances from their cold-water feeding grounds to warm-water breeding grounds every year. Unlike toothed whales, the baleen whale can travel alone on their annual migrations.
